Contributing to the documentation
=================================

Documentation is super important for a project like eve_tools. Everyone using it could benefit from clear documentation. 
If anything in eve_tools doc doesn't make sense to you, updating these sections after you figure it out could help the next person reading that section.


About eve_tools documentation
-----------------------------

eve_tools doc is written in reStructuredText, a popular markdown language with powerful support from `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`_. 
Read `this intro doc <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html>`_ to learn more about reST grammars. 
If you don't want to read through all the RST docs, you could just mimic existing docs under the directory ``doc/source/``. 
If you don't have Sphinx on your machine, follow `Sphinx's guide <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/installation.html>`_ to install it.

Some things to know about eve_tools doc:

* eve_tools doc includes documentation, like all these texts you are reading, and docstrings, which are autogenerated to explain individual classes and functions. All of them reside under ``doc/source``.
* The docstring follows `Google's Python Style Guide <https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#38-comments-and-docstrings>`_. All docstring styles have their merits, and using Google's style is just a personal choice.


Updating and building doc
-------------------------

To update existing documentation, simply make any changes you want. To add a new file, such as adding ``doc/source/developer/new_file.rst``, 
please remember to include it in the corresponding ``index.rst`` file, such as ``doc/source/developer/index.rst``. 

To build the documentation, navigate to the ``doc`` directory in a command line, then use::

    make html

or in Windows you might need to::

    .\make html

You would see some outputs from Sphinx, and if the build is successful, you won't see any warnings or errors in red. 

Then go to a file explorer, and navigate to folder ``doc/build/html/index.html``, then double click it to execute it.
You would see your default browser popping out.
